6.2.2. Processing Orders

Each time a customer enters the last page of checkout (checkout details), the corresponding order is created and becomes available in the order search. The further work with the order includes checking incoming orders in the LiteCommerce administration zone and changing the order's status. When using a payment gateway, you will also need to compare orders coming from the LiteCommerce and from the payment gateway. To assist the fullfillment staff in performing this task, there is a 'recent list' in the 'Orders' menu, which displays last 10 orders. You can change this number in the General settings/'How many latest orders to show in admin zone'.

The order status shows what you need to do with this order. There are six statuses by now: Incomplete, Processed (or payed), Queued, Complete, Declined, and Failed. Incomplete orders appear just after a customer enters the last page of checkout. He may than return to the cart and change its content, than come to checkout again. This status is usefull when yo are using some payment gateways (like 2Checkout.Com), which do not return to cart untill a customer clicks a 'return' button. Some customers forget to click the return button, bug the 'Incomplete' status guarantees that you won't lose your orders.

When a customer completely checks out the order, its status than automatically changed from 'Incomplete' to either 'Processed' (which means that the customers has payed for it) or 'Queued' (when using an offline payment method). The order notification is than sent to the customer and your order department (set your order department e-mail in the General settings / Company options dialog). You can see Processed and Queued orders in your recent orders list in the admin zone. You may want to manually change the order status on the order detailes page (see picture 2 above) when you manually process offline orders (orders made by phone or by sending you a credit card number). Changing order status from Incomplete, Failed or Declined to Processed, Complete or Queued is where some additional changes may take place when using modules (e.g. reducing bonus points from the purchaser account if the order was payed by points, see Promotion module), while changing status from Failed, Declined, Incomplete and Queued ro Processed or Complete leads to other changes, e.g. reducing product amount from inventory in the Inventory tracking module.

Basically, there is no difference between Processed and Complete orders from the point of view of LiteCommerce, besides that Processed orders are listed in the 'recent orders'. You change the status to 'Complete' when you ship incoming orders, so that there is no more need to see them in the recent list.

Failed and Declined orders behave as there was no order at all. All changes to inventory, bonus points, gift certificates, discount coupons, etc. made during checkout or order processing are rolled back when the order is set to Failed or Declined and are applied again if you change the status back. The 'Failed' status is used by online payment processors, while the 'Declined' status means that the order was declined by an administration for some reason.

There is also another, invisible order status, namely 'T' (cart). This kind of orders appear in the database whenever a customer adds something to his shopping cart and cannot be seen anywhere in admin or customer zone as well as in order export. 'T' orders are actually carts, not orders, and can be seen via direct database access only. Old 'T' orders are removed from the database automatically.

